# A-scalable-monolithic-3D-printable-variable-stiffness-mechanism

The files given in this repository contain the 3D modeling files of the C-MAC, a 3D printable variable stiffness mechanism. The full details regarding this system are presented in the paper 'A scalable monolithic 3D printable variable stiffness mechanism' by Paul Baisamy, Adam Stokes and Francesco Giorgio-Serchi presented at ICRA 2024. A Solidworks file containing the six configurations tested in the paper and six step files for each configuration are given. An example printing file made on Preform is also provided.

Abstract: Variable Stiffness Mechanisms (VSM) are becoming ubiquitous in mechatronics given the benefit they provide in terms of safety and performance. Despite these assets, VSMs remain fairly complex mechanical devices lacking in compactness, ease of manufacturing and accessibility. In addition, the scarcity of commercially available VSMs requires that such systems are mostly designed in-house. We propose a new type of VSM that improves on the pre-existing Jack Spring concept by making it more compact and robust. The new concept, which we refer to as the Compact Modifier of Active Coils (C-MAC) mechanism, is specifically designed to be manufactured through a monolithic 3D print. This approach enables to modify a minimal set of design features, namely the spring diameter and the coil diameter, to achieve the desired range of stiffness variation. We test the proposed design on six configurations; these show hysteretic energy losses no larger than 35\% over the stiffness variation and confirm stiffness to scale according to theory. Stiffness ranging from 0.15 N/mm to 1.02N /mm were measured for an overall system length of 140 mm including a maximal stroke length of 22 mm. 
